what is a landing page and why do you
need one hi
i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast
business growth show all right so what
the heck
actually is a landing page so landing
page is usually something you'll open
when you click an advert so it might be
a google ad
might be a facebook or instagram ad
something you click through on linkedin
um or google result and it's typically a
single one page
focused on a single offer and that could
be
to drive demo requests to get leads
to get email signups or it could be to
sell something so to sell a single
product
now a typical feature makeup of a
landing page
is that they usually have no money
navigation so they don't want you to
click away anywhere
um on into any other pages it's usually
got a main headline
so main value proposition of what the
offer on the landing page is all about
and then usually there'll be a sub line
just something juicy to keep you
intrigued and to keep you reading and
wanting more
it's all focused on this one thing so
whether that is lead gen
email sign up uh book a course or buy a
product
they usually have some form of social
proof or several forms of social proof
in terms of reviews
testimonials maybe they've got a video
on there maybe they've got
accreditations
and then um if it's generating leads
then i have a simple form fill so
perhaps that's your name
email number perhaps they want to prompt
you to call
or perhaps they want to actually get you
to purchase the product for the landing
page itself
so how does a website stack up versus a
landing page and what is the difference
between a landing page
and a website so a website is usually a
much more detailed resource
and websites tend to have several pages
that could be anything from homepage
about us
services contact testimonials etc
um and usually a website showcasing a
whole bunch of different services
offerings rather than a landing page is
purely focused on
the one offer as you want to get maximum
bang for your buck
um and essentially the difference biz
a landing page is a one pager a website
could be a multi-pager
isn't always but typically is so why
would you go for a landing page well
if you're going to be running ads if
you're running some kind of ad campaign
whether that's google or that's facebook
whether that's emails whether it's
linkedin and you want to get the maximum
return on your investment
rather than driving all of your ads to a
website
where people get distracted by all these
different pages all these services and
offers
by sending them straight to a landing
page you're literally
honing in you're doubling down on this
one thing that you want to gen leads or
drive sales
for as well as that you can
a b test them so what you can do is you
can have several landing pages running
perhaps you have one landing page with
one value prop
and one color scheme one type of kind of
social proof
and one page that asks maybe for name
email phone number
and a message and perhaps you run a
second landing page there's a different
layout
different color scheme different value
prop maybe asks this one just asks for
name and email
you can run them against each other you
can see which performs best
which gives you the best return in terms
of lead in terms of lead gen in terms of
revenue
so you can really stack up you can test
you can link up google analytics
measure these pages measure what works
and easily optimize them make tweaks and
changes
to get better results whether that's
generating leads or generating sales and
revenue
plus a landing page is pretty quick
because it's just a one-pager
it's fairly quick to get designed
developed and get yourself
up and running with driving uh all
important traffic to the page
all right so here's an example of a
landing page we actually use when we're
driving some ads to book a
seo consultation call with us so if we
take a look
initially we've got the main value
proposition so if you're ready to grow
your business with seo results
we've got a call to action straight away
so book a call which links to a form
um we've got another kind of sub
compelling offer do you want more
customers with seo that's typically why
seo
more clients come to us for seo because
they want to drive more customers get
more revenue
and then we've got a little video intro
explaining seo
going down we're just going talking
about here kind of typical problems that
people come to us with
so reasons or issues that people may
face and giving a little bit of info
about the pricing and then again got
another call to action here book a call
that links to form
this is our main form so all we're
asking for is
name email phone number budget and your
seo goals the required fields are just
name
email and the monthly budget
and then we've got the submit button
what i do recommend as well
is on these forms explain what people
will get exactly
so in this case you can speak to our seo
expert seo
team so make sure people understand what
they're going to get by filling out the
form and again on the button rather than
just having submit
get your quote or request your demo or
purchase now make it super relevant to
what people get once they fill in the
form
moving down we've got two layers of
social proof here
so we've got accreditation some of the
clients in our case we work with
we've got a review slider so people can
just get that extra layer of confidence
when they're scrolling through the page
and seeing these reviews
again another call to action so
consistent the same call to action
throughout because we're focused on this
one offer of getting people to
book the call and then just some
examples
of some results we've achieved just to
add that extra layer of trust and build
confidence
a bit more in terms of our
accreditations again helps us social
proof
helps with examples of work and then
we've just finally got the option for
people to either
click to call or click to email
and that wraps it up so to summarize you
should consider a landing page
if you've got one offer that you want to
drive traffic
and get leads or revenue for so whether
that is
some kind of advertisement whether
that's through email marketing whether
that's through
social or something else you've got this
one key offer you want to drive leads
you want to drive sales for you don't
want to confuse people so you don't want
to send them to a full website
you want to send them to one pager
that's going to really show the value
proposition
build trust with social proof and
leverage call to actions consistently
throughout the page so really encourage
people to take that one action do that
one thing you want them to do
and ultimately fuel your business
growth hope you enjoyed this episode all
around why you need a landing page and
what it is for
if you enjoyed it please do hit
subscribe and we'll catch you
on the next episode